People often see YouTubers as having an easy life where they simply post videos and enjoy perks from brands. However, finding content ideas for YouTube is a tricky task, and it is easy to run out of inspiration. Not only do you need to think of creative video concepts, but you also need to prepare and edit the videos . Then, of course, there is the matter of finding the right time to post. To help you out, here are 45 content ideas to give creatives a boost. Whether you are a writer, video creator, photographer, internet marketer, animator, or graphic designer, there should be something on this list to inspire.

45 Great Content Ideas For YouTube
Tell Your Followers Who You Are

#1 Introduce Yourself
If you are starting a new channel, it is good to tell the viewers a bit about who you are. This will help them relate to you and set expectations for what they will get from subscribing to your channel.
#2 A Day in the Life Of
Tracking your daily movements is a fun way of showing your viewers who you are. You can choose what aspect of your day to focus on, whether it is your job or a hobby. Some ideas:

A day in the life of a voice-over artist
A day in the life of [insert your name]
A day in the life of a vegan
A day in the life of a small business owner
#3 Introduce Your Business
If your channel is aimed at promoting your work or career, it is essential to introduce your business to the world. You can then continue to speak about it throughout your videos. People will get to know your work and gain insight into your process, ultimately laying the foundations of trust.
#4 Explain the Purpose of Your YouTube Channel
Your channel will stand out with a video about the inspiration behind your why . This will give your viewers a good idea of how they will benefit from subscribing. If you are putting a creative spin on a common topic, tell your viewers.
#5 Give a Tour of Your Workspace at Home
Extend the view of the lens to show viewers where you make the magic happen and turn concepts you receive into deliverables clients love. This will make your viewers feel connected to you on a personal level. Viewers may even see interesting things they want to know more about in your setup.
#6 Give a Tour of Your Office
You can also give viewers a peek into your work life by providing a tour of your office or workspace. Show snippets of the team and even ask them to add their two cents to the video.
#7 Facts About Yourself
Choose a number and think of that many interesting facts about yourself to tell the viewers. Such as “30 interesting things about me”. This will show off your unique personality.
#8 What’s In/on My…
Choose something to delve deeper into to give your viewers a better sense of who you are. Such as:
What’s in my fridge
What’s on my phone
What’s in my camera bag
What’s in my travel bag
#9 Host a Q&A Session
Viewers love to interact with their favorite vloggers, and a Q&A gives your viewers a voice. A content idea for YouTube could be to schedule a live video to answer questions your channel followers submit. You can also reach out to your followers and collect questions beforehand. From there, pre-record a video answering these. Get someone to join you on the video and let them ask you the questions on camera.
#10 Meet the Family/Team
Introduce your viewers to other people behind the scenes of your videos. If you have a team who works on your channel, put them in front of the camera. If your channel is personal, you can persuade your family to show their faces. This will give viewers a deeper insight into your life.
Teach Your Followers Something
#11 How-to Video
According to a Wyzowl study, 96% of respondents have watched explainer videos to learn how to do something. Visually explaining how to do something can help people understand things a lot easier than through text. How-to ideas:

How to play guitar like a pro
How to write for SEO
How to make your own animations
How to use Microsoft Office
How to drive traffic and views with thumbnails
#12 Tutorial Video
Tutorial videos are similar to how-to videos, although these videos offer a broader picture of the topic. A tutorial can show viewers how to use AI for content creation, for example. In the tutorial or explainer video , you should outline steps in detail and mention why you do certain things in specific ways.
#13 History Lesson
Think of a topic you are passionate about that relates to the theme of your channel or work. Research the topic in-depth to learn its history to teach your viewers. Add in extra fun or interesting facts about the topic. You can also ask your viewers to comment if they know anything more about the subject.
#14 Best Products or Tools For…
Create a helpful guide on a specific topic to help viewers choose the right product they need. These videos can open the doors to sponsors and paid social media advertising if the right brands enjoy your videos. Best product ideas:
Best SEO tools in 2022
Most popular computer games
Best productivity software for freelancers
Top camera lenses for photographers
Best free design platforms
#15 Show Off Your Collections
If you have any cool collections, such as CDs, games, crystals, or NFT art, show them off to your followers. You can explain how and where you got some of them or any interesting stories behind them. The ideas here are endless. If you have lots of them, show them off.
#16 Give Game Tutorials
Gamer channels are popular and bring in a lot of views among gaming enthusiasts. If your work or channel relates to this segment, create an in-game tutorial. Record your screen while navigating the game and teach viewers how to achieve certain things.
#17 Bust Some Myths
A fun informational video can be created by choosing a myth to bust. Choose something that you can easily try out and put to the test.
#18 Whiteboard/Animated Explainer Videos
Get creative by making an explainer video with interesting visuals. You can hand-draw explanations on a whiteboard or create computer animations to explain topics. Viewers enjoy learning new things in creative ways rather than simply listening to a speech about something.
#19 Give a Tour of Your City/Popular Attractions
Get out and explore your own city. However, take your camera with you to give your viewers an exclusive view of exactly what you’re seeing.
Create Review Videos
#20 Review Software Platforms You Use
Give your clients and followers a guide to the tools you use for work. Let them know what they do to elevate your job and help you work professionally. Not only will this leave a good impression, but it may well earn you more business.

#21 Compare Two Products
Choose two similar products and test them out to see which one is better. Record the pros and cons of each one for your followers to decide which may be best for them. Comparing products can help you monetize your channel as brands may ask you to compare their goods or services.
#22 Review a Book
Give an in-depth review of one of your favorite books. You can also choose a random book to review. You can take this further by asking your followers for suggestions on new books to review.
#23 Review a Movie
Create a review on a new release movie. This will give your viewers insight into whether they would want to watch it or not. Be sure to announce any spoilers that you may mention, or better yet, keep spoilers entirely out of the review.
#24 Record Testimonials
Testimonial videos offer an effective marketing strategy for businesses. If you run a business website or social channels, add testimonial sections to them. Ask clients to speak on camera about how they found the product or service. Create a few video testimonials to be placed alongside written reviews.
#25 Review a Sports Game
Review a recent sports game to offer viewers better insight into what happened during the game. Replay any highlights and controversial moments to provide your opinion on the outcome. Sports fans can get very passionate and will enjoy watching someone else who is as enthralled by the sport.
Improve Your Followers Life
#26 Repeat The Steps In An Instructional Video
Experts know their stuff. But, when they create instructional videos, are the steps as easy to follow for beginners as they make them out to be? Test this theory out by creating a video where you follow instructions to do something. It could be using a platform, creating your own graphics, or running PPC ads. Throughout the clip, talk about the steps you understand and those you don't.
#27 Answer Your Followers Calling
One of the great content ideas for YouTube is to poll your audience and see what they want to know from you. Collect their suggestions and create some videos that speak to their curiosity.
#28 Highlight Benefits of a Lifestyle
If you are passionate about a specific diet or lifestyle, highlight the benefits for your viewers. Informational videos like this can help people make their own decision about the subject. Do some research to find out facts on what you’re talking about, for example, remote work, to give your video more credibility.
#29 Make Relaxing or Calming Videos
Create visually relaxing videos for viewers to destress and wind down with. If you are musical, you can add unique music to the videos to set the scene.